managed to find what they saw as flaws
and Gary Webb's work now his own
executive editor at the San Jose Mercury
News in an extraordinary column last
Sunday has distanced himself from Webb's
work as well what's really going on here
we'll try to find out on today's edition
of living room Pacifica radios daily
nationwide callin program good afternoon
I'm Larry Ben ski and we'll be talking
to Gary Webb and two longtime
investigative reporter Robert Perry as
well in this hour today on living room
right after we go to Pacific as
Washington bureau for a look at today's
news headlines with patricio out of the
bay
thanks Larry Attorney General Janet Reno
ordered prosecutors today to seek the
death penalty for Unabomber suspect
Theodore Kaczynski despite requests from
his family that he was be spared they
argued that other families might be
reluctant to turn in relatives if a
death penalty sentence is imposed
prosecutors contend Kaczynski is
responsible for 18 years of bombings
that took three people's lives and
injured 23 others in a campaign that
against technology Kaczynski's trial is
set to start next November in Sacramento
California
the Senate is set to vote today later on
a democratic alternative to a bill that
would allow some late term abortions the
proposal from the Senators would allow
such abortions to save the mother from
serious health consequences the
president had vetoed bills in the past
that did not contain that provision also
in the Senate Budget Committee Chairman
pete Domenici 'he's plan to cut more
than two hundred and twelve billion
dollars in funds in order to balance the
budget by the year 2002 could also come
up for a vote later tonight most of the
cuts are to social programs in higher
education and least a military virtually
intact sire and president Mobutu Stacey
Seco returned to Kinshasa and faces a
rebel ultimatum to leave within two days
South African president Nelson Mandela
says he will keep going with peace talks
and met with rebel leader Laurent Kabila
earlier today also in the news a House
committee does investigating allegations
of fraud in the congressional race at
Republican Bob Dornan lost
here has now subpoenaed the Immigration
and Naturalization Service for their
records into the number of residents of
that district that became citizens in
time to vote in that race Dornan has
maintained that undocumented immigrants
voted illegally and gave the edge to now
congresswoman Loretta Sanchez and a bill
to require unions to disclose what they
specifically use their membership dues
for it for it's making the rounds on on
Capitol Hill conservatives allege unions
use dues for partisan political
activities and go against the majority
of their membership by doing that and
that's what's coming up with on Pacifica
Network News Larry thanks Patrice Aguada
Lupe
[Music]
Guerry webs Dark Alliance series in the
San Jose Mercury News last August stated
that a northern California drug ring
sold tons of cocaine in inner-city Los
Angeles and funneled millions of dollars
in drug profits to the anti-government
Contra rebels seeking to overthrow
Nicaragua Sandinistas Webb also wrote
that the Contras financiers met with CIA
agents before and during the time they
were selling the drugs the series caused
an uproar especially in Los Angeles
where angry citizens demanded
accountability from the CIA while three
of the country's leading newspapers
launched their own belated
investigations ultimately concluding
that things hadn't happened quite the
way Gary Webb said they had
congressional and government
investigations were started and still
continue but last Sunday a startling
note to readers from The Mercury News
executive editor appeared in the paper
saying that the Mercury News should have
done better in what he called grey areas
including whether and how much money was
sent by drug dealers to the Contras
whether the drug ring involved was
really significant in the rise of crack
in Los Angeles and whether the CIA's
knowledge of these things should have
been implied in the series we're going
to discuss that series today and its
aftermath and the present status of Gary
Webb's investigations and parallel
investigations with three people
we'll have Gary Webb with us momentarily
right now we're joined from Washington
from our WPF W studios by robert Parry
long-time investigative reporter robert
Parry broke some of the original
iran-contra stories in the mid 1980s
when he was working with The Associated
Press later he worked for a Newsweek and
PBS Frontline series he now heads his
own consortium for independent
journalism in Virginia welcome once
again to Pacifica Radio about Perry Bob
I would think it would be instructive
here if briefly and I know you could do
this really for the whole hour you could
tell our listeners what the CIA
typically does when they're faced with
the kind of confrontational journalism
that you've done in the past and what
Gary Webb has done here well they
usually deny it well that's for sure but
then what well they also have
a good deal of influence in the
Washington establishment the there is at
a certain level of journalism and
politics and in the national security
arena overlap where where editors senior
editors might be on the Council for
Foreign Relations and meet with people
who work closely with the CIA or are
part of the CIA so there are social
connections and political connections
that exist throughout this the city of
Washington DC which gives the CIA a good
deal more influenced and I think many
many citizens may understand I think
most most citizens would look at this
and think of the CIA as a very separate
secret entity lodged off at Langley
Virginia that deals with foreign matters
in inter interferes and foreign
countries but it's also very influential
inside the beltway and so they're there
what you will see often will be key
editors key publications key of key news
outlets of all kinds rallying to the
side of the CIA when it comes under this
kind of criticism now what happened to
you in the mid 1980s when you when you
and I first met actually around
iran-contra time and you were working
for The Associated Press and you and
your then partner Brian Barger had some
of this material on the fact that the
Contras were linked to drug dealing and
that the CIA either winked about it or
knew about it or had something to do
with it what happened to your work in
this field
well we Brian Barger and I were working
in the mid in in middle of 1985 together
on stories about Oliver North AP wrote
the first story in June of 85 describing
in a very sketchy way Norris activities
supporting the Contras in secret we
continued those investigations into the
fall and we stumbled upon through
through interviews with Contras with
their supporters with law enforcement
people the fact that a number of contra
units really in both Honduras in Costa
Rica although we focused on Costa Rica
initially had become involved with drugs
trafficking we went down to Miami and
interviewed more people we obtained some
documents that had been that had been
developed in Central America by by
especially by the Costa Rican
authorities we went down to Costa Rica
we interviewed law enforcement officials
they are both US and Costa Rican we
talked to more Contras and we talked to
US officials back in Washington and what
they confirmed to us over and over again
was that the Contras were involved in
drug trafficking now what was the
magnitude that we're talking about here
because one of the complaints about
quibbles with or big criticisms of Gary
web-series and we'll be talking with
Kerry Webb momentarily is that some of
this sure may have been going on but not
on anything like the type of magnitude
that would have been necessary to fund
an army even a very small army such as
the one that the Contras were in the
early 1980s well we never quantified the
amounts in our stories we pretty much
just described the fact that it was
occurring but I think one can argue that
that the Contra connection to the
cocaine trade was significant not just
because the Contras themselves were
involved in transshipping cocaine or
protecting flights or or even handling
their own drugs into the into the United
States but the Contras were working
closely with the Honduran military the
Honduran military provided protection
for the Contras in Honduras and were and
also was doing this really at the behest
of the United States government the
contra the the Honduran military was
deeply involved in drug trafficking some
of the largest shipments ever ever
stopped in Miami were coming by sea from
Honduras the
in Panama of course where you had Bill
Casey and Oliver North recruiting Manuel
Noriega to help the Contras you also had
significant drug trafficking so why
didn't we read about this on the front
page of the New York Times if Robert
Peary could find out about it with Brian
Barger and file Associated Press stories
certainly these larger newspapers the
Washington Post the New York Times and
the Los Angeles Times could have found
out about it as well well the the
Washington Post and The New York Times
took very protective positions on behalf
of the Claunch
and be on behalf of the CIA they had
editorially swung into the contra camp
by the mid-1980s there was a sense that
that that these stories are very risky
there was a reporter for the New York
Times who was assigned to this who who
said he would only write these kinds of
stories if the evidence was in effect
perfect we'd be in a hell of a shape if
we all waited for our evidence to be
perfect that's German well pretty much I
mean and as you know even in courts of
law where where it's not just a matter
of a journalist writing a story it's a
matter of people being put away in
prison routinely prosecutors use
convicted felons other drug dealers
these are people who know what happened
and but the the position that the New
York Times and The Washington Post in
effect took was that such witnesses
would not be allowed to be given any
credibility in this investigation
because they did what they said
reflected badly on the US government and
its national security operations well no
now we have the New York Times coming
out editorial yesterday and in a
front-page story the day before
gleefully I can only use that word I
think it's appropriate saying that the
Mercury News has now denounced Gary Webb
stories New York Times saying there's
little hard evidence to support these
claims and and congratulating the
Mercury News for candor in
self-criticism and I far as I'm
concerned this takes the hutzpah
journalism award of the decade the New
York Times has never come clean as they
say in their editorial The Mercury News
comes clean as the New York Times ever
come clean about allowing Claire
sterling the noted hysterical
anti-communist to purport her plot to
kill the Pope on page one and making her
for one day in New York Times
correspondent to peddle that CIA story
has the New York Times ever come clean
about offing their reporter Raymond
Bonnar for having reported the massacre
at el mozote day in El Salvador as the
New York Times ever come clean about
assigning ideologues like Shirley
Christian and Stephen Kinzer to cover
the Sandinistas in Nicaragua no the New
York Times has never come clean on that
and yet here they are saying well the
Mercury News is now
clean and they can re-enter the
fellowship of journalists well I think
Larry the point I would make also is
that here we had a situation in the
1980s where significant volumes of
cocaine were coming into the United
States I should add here very quickly
that beyond the Honduran military in the
Costa Ricans and the Panamanians who
were working with the Contras and
dealing in cocaine you also had the
Cuban Americans who went from Miami to
Central America to work with the Contras
being described by US officials as
having been up to their eyeballs in
cocaine and you had you had members of
the Midian cartel which is not a small
organization in terms of the volume of
cocaine paying large sums millions of
dollars to the Contras to support them
and in the view of the cartel by some
protection from US law enforcement so
you had a you had a major problem that
was developing then it that implicated
the US government the US government was
was indeed protecting the Contras and
their allies for national security
reasons that is when reporters or
federal investigators or say
congressional investigators looked into
this we were constantly confronted with
obstructions brought about by the US
government and and by the in many cases
by places like the New York Times so you
had it seems to me that if there should
be an investigation in internal critique
there should also be one for the for why
the New York Times and why the
Washington Post failed to do their their
basic journalistic responsibilities to
protect the American people and to
inform them about information that was
that that that ironically now both those
papers accept as true if you read this
if you went back to the last fall and
read the story for instance that Walter
Pincus wrote in The Washington Post
while he attacks Gary Webb he also says
oh by the way that all those stories the
1980s are now well documented well we
now have Gary Webb with us robert Parry
we've had a moment of technical
difficulty here and Gary Webb will be
with us for the rest of this program he
joins us from public radio station kxb
are in sacramento welcome to Pacifica
Radio Gary Webb good afternoon
Gary you've been all other over the
media in the past few days including on
new
local and national Pacifica programs and
I know some of our listeners have heard
you already and are familiar with
circumstances I'm going to jump right to
something that I understand you did
yesterday although I didn't see it
myself a listener called and told me
that you'd been on CNN and you were
waving around a handful of papers saying
I've got more on this story and they
won't let me publish it is this true
that's not true okay
it wasn't me the fact of the matter is
that we do have a lot more information
that's been sitting in the can since
February we've got four additional
stories that so far have made sort of a
snail's progress towards getting the
paper well you would seem to have the
ideal journalist job I mean you spent
what five months producing Dark Alliance
you wrote a three-part series since then
it's been seven more months I don't read
The Mercury News every day but I read it
enough to know that I haven't seen your
byline covering stories from Sacramento
so I assume I've been working on this
full-time write works full-time they're
paying you full time and you don't ever
have to produce anything well that's
that that's not quite as a good job as
all that you get into the newspaper
business to write stories and what I've
been doing the last couple of months is
writing memos now what's in those
stories Gary Webb what if you could
publish those stories in San Jose
Mercury News tomorrow or somewhere else
would you be doing to advance the story
well what these stories do is you know
we went back down to Costa Rica we went
back down a Nicaraguan we interviewed
members of the drug ring eyewitnesses to
this stuff and what we came up with was
evidence that's you know this members of
this drug ring had very solid
connections to US government officials
we have a paper trail now that goes into
the National Security Council we have
evidence during this is at what period
of time this is during the 1980s what
part of the 1980
1986 so you're talking about Oliver
North time absolutely we have you know
it some of the stuff that we've gotten
from the National Archives recently
strongly suggest that not only was the
CI aware of it they were aware of very
specific details of this drug
trafficking particularly at ela pongo
airbase in El Salvador which was the
airbase that was being used by the North
North Network and again by the CIA after
the funding was restored in order to
supply the Contras on the so-called
northern Front and Honduras Gary Webb
when you say the CIA knew I think this
is a point where a lot of people start
to quibble with you and they certainly
have done more than quibble they've
criticized you in print saying what does
he mean by the CIA does he mean some
low-level drug guy who once met a CIA
officer then immediately becomes a CIA
person how far can you trace this into
the CIA haria hierarchy well the initial
series talked about a meeting that
occurred in Honduras with Colonel
Enrique Bermudez who was the military
commander of the contra army known as
the fdn the the funny thing about about
hearing all this revisionist history is
that you know the drug - of the drug
dealers who were at this meeting
Norwin Meneses and Danilo Blandon both
of whom were very active contra
sympathizers and contra supporters both
of whom both of them acknowledge that
bermuda has told them to go to the
united states and raise money for the
conference Ramirez was a 10-year long
CIA agent and there's just no question
about that so they were getting their
fundraising orders directly from a CIA
agent let me let me just say a CIA agent
the CIA offices are people who work for
the CIA CIA agents are people who are
paid by the CIA do something right
Bermudez as far as we know was on the
pad as they say for around three grand a
month which is not a lot in CIA terms
Adolfo Calero for example of the Contras
was getting four times that amount of
money I wonder in this series in Havana
I've never had a chance to actually talk
with you about this before and because I
must have sinned mightily in a previous
life I had to be off on another story
all last year called electoral politics
so I didn't have a chance to follow this
stuff as closely as I had previously but
what I wondered about in this series and
I'd like to ask Robert
Herry about this - is that the period of
time that we're talking about here the
early 1980s who the contras at that
point were a few hundred maybe people
who had been in Somozas National Guard
including Enrico bermudez of their
leader who had made it across the border
into Honduras they had not yet started
recruiting big time they did not get
their official authorization to get CIA
money until Ronald Reagan authorized
that in late 1981 or early 1982 I
believe it was so to me the magnitude of
the money that you're talking about
funding a ragtag collection of people
some of whom were family members not
even fighters doesn't quite fit in other
words if you're saying millions of
dollars were sent from a cocaine
operation down to the northern border of
Honduras it seems like a very big rat
was being forced into a very small
Python if you will well you have to you
have to look at this in the terms of the
historical context I mean you're right
December of 81 Reagan authorized the CIA
to spend nineteen point nine million
dollars on the Contras most of that
money was given to the Argentine's who
were training the Contras at that time
this drug ring supplied money from that
point and we found evidence of it all
the way through 1986 so you can spread
several million dollars out over over a
number of years it's really not all that
much all right let me bill is millions
we got to take a quick break here when
we come back we're gonna have
congresswoman Maxine Waters to have her
comments about what's going on on this
but Robert Perry quickly does this
compute from what you know and you've
studied this and you know much more
about it than I do
in the early 1980s would the ragtag band
of people across the border in Honduras
have been able to absorb multi millions
of dollars from anywhere drug dealers
etc or what we're talking about here is
a level of corruption perhaps where the
money was going to people who said they
were Contras but was really going into
bank accounts in Miami well there was
some of that but but there's no question
war is a very expensive business even a
small war they had started to war yet
till 1981 they didn't do their first
action till early 1982 that's not true
the the there were actions as early as
1980 and certainly by 81 that was done
the so-called fifteenth of September
Legion which was the predecessor to the
Contras it was described in a dia report
as a terrorist organization for its
attacks on civilian targets but who was
using them that was being it wasn't
entirely clear the Argentine's as Geary
says fresh from the dirty war of
Argentina in the mid 70s were spreading
their anti-communist approach which
involved torture murder of a wide
variety of kinds of attacks into Central
America and they were using the Contras
as one of their first groups to train
they were also funding themselves by
bank robberies and kidnappings in
Guatemala exactly and then where there
was also efforts to bomb airplanes which
is what led to the dia zhdanov of the
15th of September Legion as a terrorist
organization that came the fdn that
became the fdn and that's the point that
I wanted to pick up this story but right
now we do have to take a brief break
when we come back we're going to get an
update from congresswoman Maxine Waters
about what's going on in official
Washington to investigate all of this
and what effect the note in the San Jose
Mercury News last Sunday may have had so
join us we'll be back in 60 seconds
[Music]
this is living room Pacifica radios day
to the nationwide callin program today
we're discussing the iran-contra CIA
crack whole constellation of events we
have Gary Webb the author of the Dark
Alliance series and a San Jose Mercury
News Robert Perry investigative
journalist who is working on this as
early as the mid-1980s and we're now
joined for a brief period of time from
Washington by Maxine Waters
congresswoman from Los Angeles welcome
once again to Pacifica Radio
congresswoman waters thank you very much
I'm delighted to be with you today and
it's great that you were able to join us
I know you're pressed for time so we'll
go right away to you and ask you if you
could to update our listeners on where
do all these investigations stand after
Gary Webb's series came out last August
the CIA said its Inspector General was
going to do an internal investigation
that Justice Department said its
Inspector General was going to do its
investigation the Senate Intelligence
Committee then under Senator Specter
said it was going to do its
investigation and the House Intelligence
Committee said it was going to do an
investigation there was one electric
moment when the Senate was having a
hearing and somebody in the audience
rightfully I thought stood up and said
this is a big whitewash and Senator
Specter called you up to the podiums
first time you were inducted immediately
into the United States Senate you became
senator waters for a moment and you were
part of that and and you have pledged
over and over again to follow this
through to wherever it leads where is it
leading well let me just say that I'm
very very pleased that with the latest
discussion about the journalistic styles
and the the discussion basically by the
San Jose Mercury that they thought that
they could have done it better in some
ways the Inspector General of the
Justice Department made it clear to
everybody that these investigations
underway and they will continue all of
the investigations underway they are
cooperating with each other they had
some people down in Nicaragua this past
weekend following up on some information
I had given them as a result of my visit
to speak with mr. Ricky Romero who's in
jail there who's got information
to share so the investigations are
moving forward nothing has changed
nothing has stopped those investigations
that are going on
they are calling through thousands of
documents and interviewing hundreds of
witnesses this may result in hearings as
early as August but I am I think we
should be very patient and let them do
the work this work will not be done
overnight
this is a long period of time since the
drug ring existed in South Central Los
Angeles that we're investigating and I
do know that they've got to frame it by
calling through these documents and
taking a look at who to talk to and who
to follow up on okay when you say there
may be hearings as early as August is
that in the House committee the Senate
committee a joint in the house committee
that's the latest information that I
have from the Inspector General of the
Justice Department and the House
Intelligence Committee now traditionally
the way such hearings are conducted
although the Republicans have been
changing this condition substantially
over the past few years there's a
majority and a minority staff everybody
is briefed everybody has a chance
whether or not they're in the majority
or the minority to participate in this
is it your understanding that that will
happen because my antennae were raised
when I found that Porter Goss is now
head of the House Intelligence and Kenna
should be raised he's a he's a lifetime
CIA
his career was spent as a CIA officer
officer and I was distressed when he
ended up being chair of that committee
however you know we do the best that we
can
Julian Dixon from the Los Angeles areas
on the committee and I do know he was
one of the ones that was down in
Nicaragua this past weekend with the
other investigators so I do trust him
and trust that he will pay close
attention and do the work that's
necessary to keep it from being a
whitewash and after they come back with
their findings then we'll see where we
go from there are you yourself on that
committee now no they would never put me
on it let me just ask Robert Perry if
you'd stay with us for a moment maximum
water
what's your level of confidence in a
house committee that is going to be
chaired by a former CIA office well it's
not high the history has not been very
pretty the especially when the
Republicans have tried to defend the
legacy of Reagan and Bush they have not
been very honest we saw certainly in the
out of iran-contra is remember Larry
there their report in 87 there was a
Minority Report that the Republicans put
out from the house side which was
essentially a white a total whitewash it
said the other of them the majority
wasn't report wasn't all that great
either but the Minority Report by the
Republicans simply said there was there
were no crimes broken in in the
iran-contra scandal which was an
argument that was clearly repudiated by
there by the pursuant investigation by
Lawrence Walsh
well history's not good I do think
Michael Bromwich of the Justice
Department the Inspector General there
who was on Walsh's staff if you remember
I remember well he was one of the people
have prosecuted Oliver North that's
right he is one of the most more
promising of the figures right at he's
dealt with the problems in the FBI lab
what were you saying Robert well I think
mr. Bromwich is a person who has shown a
tenacity to follow leads and leads and
follow them into difficult places so I
think of all the other various
investigations that may be the most
promising but I've no inside knowledge
on it let me ask Gary Webb here to share
perhaps with Maxine Waters you know
traditionally when government
investigators go on the ground somewhere
like Nicaragua and reporters go on the
ground they tend to cross these other's
tracks Gary Webb you've been down there
a couple of times you think the House
Intelligence Committee and other US
government officials are looking in the
right places now do you do you come
across their tracks actually they came
across our tracks we we have been
interviewing for hours and hours and
hours this fellow that Maxine when I was
talking about Enrique Miranda who was
the right-hand man to the the Contra
supporter who ran the drug ring he was
he was one of the guys that we tried to
interview last year and disappeared from
a jail cell the day that we set up the
interview he was captured in Miami
December and I don't know how else you
could put it sort of kidnapped by the
FBI he disappeared from a jail cell
wearing in Nicaragua he turned up in
Miami working for the Drug Enforcement
Administration honestly I've got the
directors of the DEA that confirmed this
and he was kidnapped by the FBI thrown
on a plane and put in the jail where his
former boss Norwin Meneses was staying
and there was a great fear that he was
going to be killed down there we've gone
down and interviewed him a number of
times he is a fount of information he
was a former sandanista intelligence
officer
if Julian Dixon is talking to him he's
going to get an earful there are other
people down there who we have talked to
however who have never been approached
by any government investigators who have
direct knowledge of this operation and
so it's fair to say isn't it that if the
San Jose Mercury News were to publish
the articles that you're writing that
you say they're sitting on people like
Maxine Waters and Julian Dickson could
get further leads as to who to talk to
absolutely but you're not working for
them no in order to an art with all due
respect do I want to work for the NGO
that's not the way ternal ism works no I
mean I'm an investigative reporter I do
my own work and that this was this sort
of the great irony of this column that
appears Sunday was that it pretended
that we don't know a lot of things that
we actually do know well let me make you
the AG offer here Gary Webb if if the
San Jose Mercury News won't print your
stories I'll invite you to come on this
program as many sessions as it takes and
read them and I will post them on a
website we have a kind of a dormant
website here on living room and I'll put
it into action and Maxine Waters and
anybody else can see them and I'm sure I
can get them in print too for people who
want to see them and I say it's the AG
offer because in the mid-1970s when
Philip ag's book was banned in the
United States we read it live on
Pacifica Radio to avoid the ban and it
was subsequently published I you need to
know that I did talk with mr. Sipos from
the San Jose Mercury News and really
issued a strong challenge to him to
publish these articles and he agreed
that I would call him back next week to
see what his decision is he said he was
looking at
the information and that of course he
reserved the right to do it or not do it
but I asked him did he feel still feel
the same sense of responsibility that he
felt when Gary published the first set
of articles under the Dark Alliance
series and he said he did and I said
then of course that would be exhibited
by publishing the rest of these articles
so I'm very hopeful and I will call him
back
well when you do we'll be in touch with
you as well I know we've got to let you
go Maxine Waters thank you for joining
us brief thank you so much and I wish I
could stay longer but I really must get
off the phone I know you do and we
appreciate the time you were able to
spend with us congresswoman Maxine
Waters
and the telephone she's hanging up can
be picked up by you the Pacifica
listeners now coast-to-coast if you have
any questions or comments about what
we're talking about this morning with
Gary Webb and Robert Perry the Dark
Alliance series the continuing
investigation do you have any confidence
it's ever going to get anywhere five 108
four eight four four to five is our
telephone number here on living room
five 108 four eight four four two five
and I know it sounds as if Bob Perry and
Gary Webb are actually with me but
Robert Perry's in our studio WPF W in
Washington and Gary Webb is at KX PR in
Sacramento but via the magic of
electronics we've got them all linked up
here so they sound live today and we're
going to take some calls and try to find
out what your thoughts are on this
matter first quickly Robert Perry you've
written about all of this and much more
in a new book that you were kind enough
to send me I have a pamphlet book called
lost history Contras cocaine and other
crimes where can people get that well
it's available through our toll-free
number if people want but would like to
call it's it's only 15 ninety-five on
that number is
[Music]
sense of the of the crimes that were
committed by various national security
figures during the era but Butler why
and how the news media got so off track
yeah it does do I follow up on these
things well we've certainly tried to
here at Pacific and I know you have as
well over the years Johnny in LA welcome
to living room Johnny you're with us
Johnny in LA has those momentarily left
his telephone so we'll go to another
call unless we are having Chris and DC
hi good afternoon gentlemen hi Chris I'm
looking at the Washington Post article I
still have it on my table after reading
it a couple of days ago and the editor
there at the Mercury News says that we
also did not include the CIA comments
about our finding our findings and I
think we should have and I just I just
don't believe that that reporters in it
and and a paper such as the Mercury News
wouldn't have contacted the CIA and I'm
wondering if if Gary Webb could tell us
about that and I have another another
contradiction well let's let's just deal
with that one first okay Chris go ahead
Gary Webb did you try to call the CIA
yeah we called him twice and and never
got a call back how unusual yeah and
then well and then I took the you know I
took the extra step of filing a Freedom
of Information Act request for
information regarding these individuals
and we're told that they couldn't
release this information because of
national security reasons subsequent to
that they came out with this amazing
statement which I've never seen ever
before in the history of the CIA in
which they specifically disavowed
knowledge of these guys so why they
couldn't have said that in their Freedom
of Information Act response the first
time is sort of an open question and
there's also suppose wrote I feel we did
not have proof that top CIA officials
knew of the relationship talking about
the relationship between Contra leaders
and crack dealers in Los Angeles how on
earth did he ever expect you or anybody
else to get proof that top CIA officials
knew of anything when the Independent
Counsel wasn't able to do that in the
case of iran-contra when none of the
congressional committees were able to do
that when people who've sued the see
for years aren't able to find that out
is he really holding you to that
standard of proof well if he is now you
know these stories are never going to
appear in the paper the problem is that
the original stories never said there
was top-level CIA knowledge and what was
surprising about that is he wrote a
letter to The Washington Post back in
October after they did their a debunking
piece which said specifically that the
stories never said that it was top-level
CIA knowledge and he criticized the
Washington Post for for claiming that
we'd had so it's been a hard there's a
problem there too though because there
was top-level knowledge of the CIA
that's that's the other problem if you
if you go how do you know that well if
you go to the well it's it's in it's in
the books it's in the depositions it's
Allen fires who was the chief of the
Central American Task Force which put
him directly in charge of the contra
operations mr. fiers was an extremely
high-level CIA man and he testified that
as far as the the southern front in
Costa Rica he said that it wasn't just a
few Contras involved with with cocaine
trafficking it was lots of them and if
you look at the in our original ap story
which ran in December of 1985 we cited a
Central Intelligence Agency report on
narcotics and narcotics trafficking
written by a man named Charles Allen
another senior official in which he
described the the role of cocaine money
in buying helicopters for the our day
unit the our day army in Costa Rica
which was one of the major controversies
at the time so the CI did know about
these allegations and what we have to
ask mr. Sipos is what does you mean by
the word proof I mean if it isn't enough
to have some confessions again we cited
the CIA in that eight original AP story
as one of our sources for knowing that
the Contras were involved in drugs and
it's all over the iran-contra hearings
of course in the trial of oliver north
and north notebooks and of Noriega and
Noriega etc so yeah then you get into
also you get into the issue of if that's
the level of proof you need top-level
CIA knowledge of this that excuses them
for 99 percent of what goes on in the
field every day every Tim Casey's dead
so we're never going to hear from
him Allen la join us on living room yes
and good afternoon it's an honor to be
on the air with with Gary Webb I have
some quick points I'd like to touch on
former DEA agents El Reno Castillo
alleges that he personally told George
Bush about the shenanigan and is
happening at the the elope angle Airport
I wonder if you could comment on that
also we haven't heard anything about
dick Blum I think dick Blum are the
elected like dictator for life for what
he did and I'm wondering on suppose I
checked out the San Jose Mercury website
yesterday try to reread Dark Alliance
and in its place was this supposed
cover-up kind of Dark Alliance is still
on there suppose just as the legal I
couldn't find it alright I'm going to
look again as soon as I got off the
phone but do you think suppose was
threatened or do you think they paid him
to do this that's a lot of beer all
right well let's just deal with a third
one you think the first two or three
statements or having questions go ahead
Gary well which question was that posed
why is he doing this that's a good
question I have I really can't fathom
the reason for this I mean if you read
his column he says it's because he's
concerned that we didn't meet standards
and if you actually read what these
alleged shortcomings were you could
apply them to any story in the newspaper
any day of the week so I'm really I'm
really puzzled by this whole you know
burst of amia culpas over a story that's
it's which he has knowledge is is is
true we're gonna be back with Robert
Perry from Washington DC and Gary Webb
from Sacramento and me Larry Ben ski
from Berkeley California and your phone
calls at five one zero eight four eight
four four two five after we take a
60-second break
[Music]
and this is living room and we're gonna
go to Andrew in LA right after I assure
that caller and anybody else who's
calling that as recently as last night
and I think this is true Gary tell me
you know it's not true the original
series is still up there if you click on
history I think they now have it it
leads off with suppose but yeah and I
think that's that that's totally due to
some of the folks at mark Center because
my information is they wanted to shut
the website down completely well the
address for it if any of our listeners
want to see it is w WS J mercury dot-com
slash drugs slash w WS J mercury comm
slash drugs slash I visited every so
often because they've been very good so
far posting all the critiques of your
story as well as responses there's a
forum where people write in and attack
you and defend you it's been quite good
and I'd be really distressed if they
shut it down and that'll be a whole
other program we're gonna do if they do
that I'm sure you Andrew in Los Angeles
join us on living room this question is
for Gary Webb I was wondering if any of
your new investigations have you been
able to have you come across any
information that links the SNL scandals
of the 80s to the Contras and the
cocaine and all that no we haven't but
that's a whole nother story you should
do talk to Pete Bruton from the Houston
post about that I mean it's funny cuz I
was talking to to mr. Bruton about this
whole furor the other day and he said
the same thing happened to him but I
think was 91 when Houston posted it did
a long series about CIA involvement with
SNL failures and he said you know I was
an award-winning journalist for 30 years
and the first time I ever wrote those
three little letters CIA suddenly I was
the worst sob in the block and it's
interesting the way that happens but I
haven't found any evidence to suggest
that there's the connection between his
drug ring and those SNL failures so
Robert Perry it certainly happened to
you as well you were an award-winning
journalist and you took your act to
Newsweek and they started not wanting
they weren't interested in your stories
anymore I remember any of you viewing
back in 1989 I never seen anybody so
unhappy am I
life during the trial of Oliver normally
you said to me Larry I just can't talk
about my job here I can talk about this
substance of the north case and shortly
after that you didn't have a job there
because no newsweek had decided that the
trial of oliver north and all the things
you knew about the CIA and cocaine and
quran contra that wasn't worth your
writing about in their magazine actually
told me that that the Oliver North trial
which occurred of course in 1989 was not
a news story I was basically Newsweek
was so determined to shut down these
investigations as best they could in
terms of a journalistic side that they
told me I could not cover the North
trial I the way I and what I then did
was arrange to get transcripts of the
daily proceedings sent to me at night
there were daily transcripts which I
arranged and a guy on a motorcycle would
show up at my house in Arlington and I
would and I'd read the transcription
till 2:00 in the morning and out of that
I did write a number of stories we
actually broke some stories but they
hated it it wasn't it wasn't the bynars
moment in journalism will go to rain San
Francisco now welcome to living room ray
thank you
one would hesitate to ask this question
is if it seems that might already been
asked but you might this is a there are
two questions here and the first one is
whether you'd care to speculate on the
kinds of pressure that would be brought
to bear on it
editor newspaper like can you can you
speak up a little ray its kind of thing
I said one would like it if you could
speculate if you'd care to run the kinds
of pressure that are brought to bear on
editors at newspapers like the San Jose
paper where mr. s'pose seems to be
distancing himself in this and the other
question is what connection does this
have with the prosecution of celery no
Castillo thanks for calling ray what
about the pressure
i I hate to speculate about what goes on
in those glass offices because you know
that's like trying to divine you know
the future from from chicken intestines
I think I don't know I mean is that
really the part of the chicken we're
talking about here the end product of
the digestive system well you know I I
think I think in general terms when you
are out there alone as the Mercury News
was there's there's a trip
- pressure to conform and and I think
that you know a lot of that was to bear
I also think that you know in in mr.
suffices defense this is being portrayed
as a as a retraction as a correction and
that's just not true I mean he said very
clearly that the core of the series that
there were Contras selling cocaine and
in South Central Los Angeles sending
money down to Central America and that
they're you know they were selling it to
the Crips and the Bloods who were
spreading it across the country that's
unchallenged yeah but is its ominous
that he headed epilogue and epilogue is
something that comes at the end and when
I saw that I said to myself they're not
gonna run any more stuff this is why I
have to be honest with you that's what I
thought too
what comes after an epilogue an epitaph
maybe a sequel let's go to Robert in
Albany I don't mean to gloss over his
question about celery no Castillo but
that requires a whole other predicate
for us to talk about and maybe we'll do
that someday on this program but right
now we want to stay with with this
series if we can Robert and Albany
welcome to living room thank you two
questions the first was can you tell me
what ever happened to that fellow Eugene
hasenfus and second is can you did you
have any idea what I mean there's no
there's been a lot of press about this
over the years the last five or six 10
years maybe about the the implications
of all this but yet it doesn't seem to
be all that much public interest and I
wondered if maybe you could comment on
it
well it's chicken-and-egg isn't it
robert Parry public interest it can't
have public interest if the news media
aren't dealing with it when was the last
time anybody on CBS or NBC or any of the
networks dealt with any of this stuff on
that but they shut that guy down out of
a plane it means OHA's of us themselves
oh yeah he recovered he's the cargo
kicker who was the survivor of the
supply plane that was shot down over
southern Nicaragua it was it was a very
important moment in our history what
happened that day because you know I've
been writing about the north matter for
well over a year and at ap and we had
and Brian Barger and I had gone through
pretty much what what Gary Webb was
going he's going through now Brian had
been put on the overnight desk at AP and
then was and was pushed out of the
company the if you remember in those in
the summer of 86 the Oliver
told the House Intelligence Committee
that none of this had happened and they
believed him and I received a lot of
media and I received a call from one of
Hamilton's people saying we had a choice
between believing you and your 24
sources which I which were the basis of
our story or these honorable men and it
wasn't a close call and so that's where
we stood we had we had screwed up in ApS
view and then on October 5th 1986 one of
North's last planes remember they but at
this point Congress had caved in and was
giving a hundred million dollars to the
Contras the money hadn't gone into the
pipe on yet so there were still these
planes going and some kid a sandanista
draftee a teenager who had never fired a
SAM missile before in his life took aim
at this plane which he saw lumbering
over the skies of Nicaragua and fired it
and he was amazed he said later that the
missile went right at the plane and I
hit the plane and Hassan fuzz who I
interviewed in Nicaragua after this said
he just happened to be near the door and
was open because he was preparing to
kick out guns and he had a parachute the
only guy with a parachute on the plane
the caller's question is whatever he had
on him he went back to Wisconsin last a
lot last I heard of him he was back in
Wisconsin living a probably you know
normal and nondescript life let's take
another call here good afternoon you're
on living room hello my name is Edward
and I've got a question it's about the
kind of cultural shift that I've seen in
journalism or that we've seen in
journalism from say the Pentagon Papers
in the publication of them to the
arrival of the iran-contra scandal I'm
curious too I'm curious about any
thoughts that Gary might have or any any
other people there might have on how
that came about that there's no will in
any in any of the journalists or any of
the journalistic institutions in this
country
wait a minute don't don't confuse those
two right there please oh thank you the
journalists and journalistic
institutions I think we have a classic
certainly but I mean if you look at it
let's let's take an example like the
newsroom of The Washington Post
I mean how many of those journalists
that are still there have the guts to
really pursue any of these issues I
don't know I don't know any of them well
the answer is very few you know in this
little book that Larry mentioned I did
loss history it opens up with a chapter
about what's called perception
management and there actually was a very
determined effort by the Reagan
administration in the early 80s to get
the press back in line and they and it
was under the control of William Casey
who was Director of Central Intelligence
he sent over to the National Security
Council his top propaganda expert a man
named Walter Raymond jr. and Walter
Raymond jr. put together a program based
largely at the State Department called
public diplomacy and the goal of that
was to browbeat journalists and their
editors into printing what the Reagan
administration wanted to see printed
about Central America they called it
internally perception management they
also managed to intimidate National
Public Radio in 1984 you also remind us
in your book out of doing much coverage
about Central America the telephone
number here is five one oh eight four
eight four four two five five one oh
eight four eight four four to five I
interrupted you Bob Perry I know do you
want to finish that thought well no it's
a good point to mention NPR because Paul
Allen who was the foreign editor there
was forced out of his job in part
because the NPR had run us a program
about a contra massacre of some farm
workers in Nicaragua and so Otto Reich
who was head of this public diplomacy
office at state underneath the NSC which
is underneath the CIA goes to NPR and
brow beats them over over how they're
not running enough pro contra material
they're running too much pro sandanista
material or whatever and it effectively
helped cost this guy his job and that
happened over and over and over again in
Washington there was effectively a purge
Gary Webb journalist who tried to tell
the truth Gary well let me give you a
more recent example and I think this is
one of the one of the historic need
years of American journalism was what
ABC did with the story that Walt bug
danach was
Abell investigative reporter did on to
nicotine spiking it was only a couple
years ago and they ran you know
full-page newspaper apologies throughout
the nation apologizing for what was
essentially a true story well this would
not seem to bode very well for us to
ever see and the San Jose Mercury News
the next four pieces that you've
prepared and I'll make you the offer
again I wasn't making it facetiously you
can come and read them here on this
program but I would imagine you would
rather see them in print do you have any
plans if the San Jose Mercury News
continues to take the kind of attitude
that they do right now to publish these
elsewhere to make them into a book
what's Gary Webb gonna do well I hope to
be able to do a book about this whole
this whole deal one day all right what I
want to do is publisher in the Mercury
News I think you know the the intent at
least is to explain to me back in
October and continuing to do this is we
were going to go out and get this
information and Ram it up the Washington
Post but which i think is a noble cause
as it were for any story am but you know
we'll see what happens we'll see what
happens I mean why they haven't said no
but they haven't said yes they belong to
a large chain and a large chain of
course has many problems in many areas
not least of which that they're
considered to be outrageous labor
explorers in Detroit and knight-ridder
but that's a whole other story
knight-ridder papers did not reprint as
far as I know your Dark Alliance story
it didn't appear as all of them did what
did it appear in the Miami Herald I
don't believe so I don't believe it
appeared in Enquirer nothing there yeah
it appeared in the Long Beach
press-telegram and you know went over
the night wire and a lot of other
newspapers picked it up from there I'm
not sure how many night Ritter
newspapers actually did it Michael in
San Francisco welcome to living room
yeah hi in a little while ago you might
have touched on this earlier but this
whole drug-running situation I think has
to be put in a as a part of a broader
picture which is American foreign policy
and it and my opinion is a very imperial
foreign policy especially out in the
third world and I don't have too much
time cuz I'm at work but I'd like you to
maybe talk about that for a few minutes
well we have only a few minutes left and
I think your point is made
and I don't think there's anybody here
would totally disagree with it I want to
get as many calls in as we can so we're
gonna go to Barbara and Camarillo thanks
for calling us on living room Barbara hi
Larry how are you doing good I want to
say hi to Gary through all this
conversation we need to remember the
communities that have been involved in
this and the devastation that's bringing
drugs in is brought to the to the
different areas in the country and I do
believe that the news all of the news
and information that Gary has should be
put on the board for everybody to see so
the communities can do what they have to
do and take action well he's got that
offer to post it on living rooms website
and broadcasted on Pacifica anytime he
wants well and I also think it's
important to remember I mean there are
there were human beings that were
affected by this drug this drug ring and
I think if you went down to South
Central and asked people if they you
know if it made a difference to them
whether or not top CIA officials knew
about it or the weather these were just
the actions of agents or assets I don't
think the answer is going to be yeah it
makes a big difference and that seems to
be the point that a lot of people miss
is that this this drug organization
dumped thousands and thousands and
thousands of kilos into a community was
like it was sort of like a neutron bomb
almost and this idea of quibbling over
exactly how many tons and exactly how
many years they did it it is just like
beside the point as far as I'm concerned
Gary Webb thank you very much for
joining us today on living room from
Sacramento Gary Webb the author of the
first three and hopefully not the last
three articles in this series Dark
Alliance will have you back on this
program I'm sure it's not your time and
robert Parry thank you very much for
joining us from Washington DC better an
investigative reporter whose wisdom has
guided many of us who followed his
tracks in this whole sordid history ever
since the mid 1980s once again he has a
new small pamphlet type book called lost
history and if you're interested in
finding out how to obtain it the 800
number is
program please call the Pacifica program
service at one eight hundred seventy
five oh two three oh that's one eight
hundred seven thirty five oh two three
oh we welcome your comments and
suggestions you can write to us online
at living room at Pacifica org that's
one word living room at Pacifica org or
by mail you can write to us at Pacifica
Radio 1929 Martin Luther King jr. way
Berkeley California nine four seven oh
four living rooms producer Cheryl
flowers our assistant producer today is
Eve Buckner our engineers are Jim
Bennett and Abby rose special thanks to
Bob Daughtry at Pacifica station WTF W
in Washington as well as Mark Jones at
public radio station KX PR in Sacramento
for their help today
be sure to join us tomorrow for
something completely different
same time same station you're on living
room with me Larry Benson